Project proposal 2
================
Gracie Goheen
2020-01-22

  - [Idea \#1 - A Choose-Your-Own-Adventure Immersive Theatrical
    Experience](#idea-1---a-choose-your-own-adventure-immersive-theatrical-experience)
  - [Idea \#2 - Austrailian Wildfires](#idea-2---austrailian-wildfires)

## Idea \#1 - A Choose-Your-Own-Adventure Immersive Theatrical Experience

I am currently serving as both the Playwright and Artistic Director of
*All the Difference*, an original play that follows four college
students over a single night in an Airbnb, drawn together in the
aftermath of a horrific incident. The show combines technology and
audience participation with traditional playmaking elements for a unique
choose-your-own adventure experience that’s different every night.
Facilitated by a custom-designed app, the nineteen-person audience must
make 6 decisions throughout the play, and each one dramatically changes
the story that’s played out on stage. The decisions range from seemingly
arbitrary to morally ambiguous to purposefully misleading. This play
focuses, both thematically and structurally, on the decisions we make
and the consequences that they have on others’ lives. Audiences are
forced to confront the decisions they make (individually and
collectively) for the characters on stage. A collision of theater and
technology, *All the Difference* uniquely explores the implication of
choice and the human desire for chaos.

I want to go through EDA, and develop visualization tools for the
audience-related data collected throughout the fifteen-show run. Data
collection and analysis would allow me to gain deep insights into how
audiences interact with performance. I want to build creative
(potentially interactive) data visualizations to later email to the
audience members, so that they can refelct on the decisions that they
made during the show.

The data will be obtained through the app during the run of the show.
Each audience member creates a “user profile,” where they answer
questions such as their age, gender, sexuality, political affiliation,
and relious beliefs, as well as other bizarre “would you rather”
questions (a total of 22 different variables). I will connect this
profile data to the 6 decisions they make during the performance. I will
develop analysis for individuals, performance nights, and the entire
run. During my analysis I hope to dig into trends based on audience
demographics and potentially create models to understand how individuals
make decisions / predict future decisions. I also want to understand
which pathways are the least visited, so that I can improve my play
during further workshops. The data would likely look similar to the data
Netflix collected from viewers during
[*Bandersnatch*](https://www.denofgeek.com/us/279296/black-mirror-netflix-collected-bandersnatch-data),
though mine would also have the added benefit of being attached to an
invidual user profile.

For my team challenge, I will select one of the trends and have the team
come up with a creative visualization that is both insightful and easy
to understand.

  - Progress report 1 (week 4): import my collected data, make it tidy,
    and create tibbles for my dataframe(s)

  - Progress report 2 (week 6): complete EDA to find trends and engaging
    devlop visualiztions

  - Challenge for rest of the team (week 7): select a trend and create a
    visualiztion challenge

  - Final report (week 9): compile my findings and craft a report to
    share with audience members and the class

## Idea \#2 - Austrailian Wildfires

I will explore the TidyTuesday dataset, depciting the recent
[Austrailian
wildfires](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/blob/master/data/2020/2020-01-07/readme.md).
I will conduct EDA and create visualizations to increase climeate change
awareness. As a team challenge, I will have students plot the fires and
create a heat map.

  - Progress report 1 (week 4): import the date, make it tidy, and
    create tibbles for my dataframe(s)

  - Progress report 2 (week 6): complete EDA to find trends and engaging
    devlop visualiztions

  - Challenge for rest of the team (week 7): develop my plotting
    challenge (heat map)

  - Final report (week 9): compile my findings and craft a report
