Project proposal 1
================
Gracie Goheen
2020-01-15

  - [Idea \#1 - A Choose-Your-Own-Adventure Immersive Theatrical
    Experience](#idea-1---a-choose-your-own-adventure-immersive-theatrical-experience)
  - [Idea \#2 - A Deep Dive Into my Own Google
    Trends](#idea-2---a-deep-dive-into-my-own-google-trends)

## Idea \#1 - A Choose-Your-Own-Adventure Immersive Theatrical Experience

As mentioned in my application for this class, I am currently serving as
both the Playwright and Artistic Director of *All the Difference*, an
original play that follows four college students over a single night in
an Airbnb, drawn together in the aftermath of a horrific incident. The
show combines technology and audience participation with traditional
playmaking elements for a unique choose-your-own adventure experience
that’s different every night. Facilitated by a custom-designed app, the
nineteen-person audience must make 6 decisions throughout the play, and
each one dramatically changes the story that’s played out on stage. The
decisions range from seemingly arbitrary to morally ambiguous to
purposefully misleading. This play focuses, both thematically and
structurally, on the decisions we make and the consequences that they
have on others’ lives. Audiences are forced to confront the decisions
they make (individually and collectively) for the characters on stage. A
collision of theater and technology, *All the Difference* uniquely
explores the implication of choice and the human desire for chaos.

I want to develop visualization tools and analysis for the
audience-related data collected throughout the fifteen-show run. Data
collection and analysis would allow me to gain deep insights into how
audiences interact with performance. I want to build creative
(potentially interactive) data visualizations to later email to the
audience members, so that they can refelct on the decisions that the
made during the show.

The data will be obtained through the app during the run of the show.
Each audience member creates a “user profile,” where they answer
questions such as their age, gender, and relious beliefs, as well as
other bizarre “would you rather” questions (a total of 22 different
variables). The app will connect this profile to the 6 decisions they
make during the performance. During my analysis I hope to dig into
trends based on audience demographics and potentially create models to
understand how individuals make decisions / predict future decisions. I
also want to understand which pathways are the least visited, so that I
can improve my play during further workshops. The data would likely look
similar to the data Netflix collected from viewers during
[*Bandersnatch*](https://www.denofgeek.com/us/279296/black-mirror-netflix-collected-bandersnatch-data),
though mine would also have the added benefit of being attached to an
invidual user profile.

## Idea \#2 - A Deep Dive Into my Own Google Trends

My second idea would be using [Google
Takeout](https://takeout.google.com/?pli=1) to download my own browsing
data and do a deep dive into when and why I use the Internet. I would
want to focus on my chrome, maps, and YouTube history. I would develop
unique visualization tools to understand my habits and how they have
changed over time. This would allow me to gain insight into my personal
google-usage and to understand how google might gain insight into me as
a user.
